h1. Short Description

* This is a RAILS 2.3.7 based application that helps you to collect Twitter data.

h2. How to Install

* Checkout with :
<pre><code>
  git clone git@github.com:plotti/twitterlyzer.git
</code></pre>

h3. Install RVM
* Install rvm if you are not using it (http://beginrescueend.com/rvm/install/)
<pre><code>
 $ bash -s stable < <(curl -s https://raw.github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm/master/binscripts/rvm-installer)
 $ source ~/.bash_profile
 $ rvm requirements
</code></pre>
* The rvm spec file is already in the repo
* Install ruby 1.8.7
<pre><code>
  $ rvm install 1.8.7
</code></pre>
* Create your gemset
<pre><code>
 rvm gemset create 'socializer' 
</code></pre>
*If you have permission problems try to create the gem dir:
<pre><code>
sudo mkdir ~/.gem/specs
sudo chmod 777 ~/.gem/specs
</code></pre>

h3. Setup Files
* To get it running you will need to create a: 
** twitter.yml that contains your twitter credentials
** bitly.yml that contains your bitly credentials
** database.yml containting the database credentials
** see twitter.example.yml or bitly.example.yml for details
** Make sure when your Twitter account is NOT whitelisted that you dont use up your API limitations when using too many workers

h3. Install Gems Dependencies
* The app is using 2.3.7 rails so all gems are chosen to match that framework
<pre><code>
gem install rails -v =2.3.7
gem update --system 1.5.3
</code></pre>
* To install them first install:
<pre><code>
gem install rails_gem_install
RAILS_ENV=development rails_gem_install
</code></pre>

h3. Test
** Test if the application works correctly
** You will need rspec/rspec-rails and factory girl to test it.
<pre><code>
spec spec
</code></pre>

h3. Get Delayed Jobs working
** Create the necessary files with: script/generate delayed_job
** To start collecting persons or feeds you need to start a couple of delayed job workers. To do so use the script
<pre><code>
"./script/delayed_job -n 4"
</code></pre>

*** The Benchmarks I measured are depending on the number of workers (n):
**** Collecting Tweets: n 4: 40.000 tweets in 10min
**** n 8: 90.000 tweets in 10min
**** n 16: 180.000 tweets in 10 min (70% CPU usage)


h2. FEATURES

It does the following:

	It uses Delayed Jobs to get the collection done.
	The Twitter API is wrapped using grackle and twitter gems
	
	Projects
		Persons are organized in projects that contain a set of people

	Persons
		collect one person
		collect multiple persons based on a csv import		
		collect the egonetwork of a given person
		show all people
		show statistics of the people collected (friends, follower distributions, origin etc..)
		
	Connections between persons
		Connections between persons are stored not in the DB but on the HD in  a PStore
		
	Tweets
		collect the tweets of a person
		collect the tweets of all persons
		collects tweets based on a csv list
		collect all retweets of all collected tweets
		export all tweets into a csv		
		show statistics on the tweets (links used, keywords, timeline)
	
	Networks
		export the friendship network of the collected persons in a project the formats:
			UCINET
			Gephi
		export the retweet networks of persons
		export the @ networks between persons
		export the person stats
		export the twitter links of persons

	Tasks	
		It has some onboard scrapers under tasks that scrape the following websites
			Murack.com
			Google
			Twellow
			Wefollow
		
		It can compute some sentiment for german tweets 
